---
layout: '../../layouts/pack.astro'
title: Reach for the top. Pack#1
addedBy: Sokmontrey
---

1. Name the southern supercontinent formed from the breakup of Pangaea.
 A: Gondwanaland
2. Joseph Jenkins Roberts and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf are former presidents of what African
nation?
 A: Liberia
3. What Newfoundland-born comedian is known for the rants he delivered on his eponymous
Report?
 A: Rick Mercer
4. What French scientist created the first rabies vaccine?
 A: Louis Pasteur
5. In which New York village did the 1980 “Miracle on Ice'' occur?
 A: Lake Placid
6. Which team beat the New York Giants in both the “Miracle at the Meadowlands” and the
“Miracle at the New Meadowlands”?
 A: Philadelphia Eagles (accept either underlined part)
7. Which team did the Los Angeles Kings beat in the “Miracle at Manchester” in a playoff series
against a team led by Wayne Gretzky?
 A: Edmonton Oilers (accept either underlined part)
8. Which group of elements comprises group 1 of the periodic table, excluding hydrogen?
 A: alkali metals (reject: alkaline metals, metals)
9. Which alkali metal is known in Latin as kalium?
 A: potassium
10. Which alkali metal’s atomic number is 1 less than that of barium?
 A: cesium
11. Which alkali metal’s hydroxide is known as lye?
 A: sodium
12. Based on Pierre Beaumarchais’s plays of the same name, what two operas, one by Mozart
and one by Rossini, feature the character of Figaro?
 A: The Barber of Seville AND The Marriage of Figaro
13. A woman named Lesbia was the object of the affections of what late Roman poet?
 A: Gaius Valerius Catullus
14. What political title was held by Ludovico Manin and Enrico Dandolo in Venice?
 A: Doge of Venice
15. In 2001, two Democratic senators and several news media offices were the target of
bioterrorism attacks in which they received envelopes containing spores of what bacteria?
 A: anthrax (accept: Bacillus anthracis)
16. What type of flowering plants belong to the genus Digitalis?
 A: foxglove
17. What titular character of a Mark Twain novel helps the slave Jim escape down the
Mississippi River?
 A: Huckleberry Finn (accept either underlined part)
18. What vengeful, peg-legged character captains the Pequod?
 A: Captain Ahab
19. In Oscar Wilde’s only novel, what character owns a portrait of himself that absorbs his flaws
and defects, allowing him to remain permanently youthful?
 A: Dorian Gray (accept either underlined part)
20. What protagonist of Pride and Prejudice receives proposals from Mr. Collins and Mr.
Darcy?
 A: Elizabeth Bennet (prompt on: Bennet)
21. After the death of her mother Fantine, who is adopted by Jean Valjean in Les Misérables?
 A: Cosette
22. What orphan grows up to become a governess at Thornfield Hall, where she begins a
romance with Edward Rochester?
 A: Jane Eyre (accept either underlined part)
23. What undead character is hunted by men such as Jonathan Harker and Abraham van Helsing?
 A: Count Dracula
24. What titular character of a Charles Dickens novel encounters the Artful Dodger, a member of
a gang of young pickpockets led by Fagin?
 A: Oliver Twist (accept either underlined part)
25. From the Latin for “hard mother”, what two-word name is given to the thick membrane
encasing the brain and spinal cord?
 A: dura mater
26. What Halifax ship terminal saw the landing of over 1.5 million immigrants from 1928 to
1971?
 A: Pier 21
27. Retrograde and anterograde are the two forms of what neurological disorder?
 A: amnesia
28. What specific type of weaponry does a fletcher work with?
 A: arrows (reject: bow, bow and arrow, arrowhead)
29. The second generation of Pokemon games are set in what fictional region?
 A: Johto
30. What is the provincial flower of Ontario?
 A: White Trillium
31. What composer of Night Music of the Streets of Madrid is best-known for his “Celebrated
Minuet”?
 A: Luigi Boccherini
32. What is the world’s longest above-water mountain range?
 A: Andes Mountains
33. Which physicist names a unit of time approximately equal to 10 to the minus 44 seconds, and
a unit of length approximately equal to 10 to the minus 35 metres?
 A: Max Planck
34. Procyon is the brightest star in which constellation, Latin for “Little Dog”?
 A: Canis Minor
35. Equal to 10 to the minus 10 metres, what unit of length is symbolized by an A with an
overring?
 A: angstrom
36. One-dimensional branes of Planck length are the basis for what theory of quantum physics,
in which particles are represented by different vibrations?
 A: string theory
38. A child of deaf adults is the protagonist of what movie, which won Best Picture?
 A: CODA
39. Who was assaulted by Will Smith onstage while hosting the Oscars?
 A: Chris Rock
40. Jesse Plemons, Kirsten Dunst, and Benedict Cumberbatch starred in what revisionist
western?
 A: The Power of the Dog
41. A story from the collection Men Without Women inspired what Japanese movie that was
nominated for Best Picture and won Best International Feature Film?
 A: Drive My Car
42. What word is the nominative first-person singular pronoun in Latin, and is often grouped
with “id” and “superego” in a psychological paradigm?
 A: ego
43. What large language family does Latin belong to, along with Greek and Sanskrit?
 A: Indo-European (reject partial answers)
44. The Latin first declension primarily contains nouns of which gender, such as ancilla and
mater?
 A: feminine (accept: female)
45. What two-word phrase is the closest English translation of the Latin habemus [“ha-BAYmuss”]?
 A: “we have” (reject any other answer)
46. “Airbag”, “Paranoid Android”, “Subterranean Homesick Alien”.
 A: OK Computer
47. “Just Dance”, “LoveGame”, “Paparazzi”.
 A: The Fame (reject: The Fame Monster)
48. “Speak to Me/Breathe”, “On the Run”, “Time”.
 A: The Dark Side of the Moon
49. “STARGAZING”, “CAROUSEL”, “SICKO MODE”.
 A: ASTROWORLD
50. Followers of what religion read the Guru Granth Sahib and traditionally adopt the surname
Kaur or Singh?
 A: Sikhism
51. What “K”-word refers to the small ceremonial dagger carried by Sikhs?
 A: kirpan
52. What holiest shrine of Sikhism is found in the city of Amritsar in the Punjab?
 A: Golden Temple (accept: Harmandir Sahib, Darbar Sahib)
53. The kesh is the Sikh practice of allowing what to grow, out of respect for divine creation?
 A: hair (reject: beard, facial hair)
54. What type of property are Pennsylvania, Reading, B&O, and Short Line in a game of
Monopoly?
 A: railroads (reject: railway, other equivalents)
55. What gemstone names the programming language that provides the basis for the webdevelopment framework Rails?
 A: ruby
56. What cartoon rabbit created by Rosemary Wells is the younger brother of Ruby?
 A: Max
57. From 1864 to 1867, what North American country was ruled by Emperor Maximilian I?
 A: Mexico
58. What breed of dog is also the name of the largest state in Mexico?
 A: chihuahua
59. In what 2001 movie is Bruiser the name of the chihuahua owned by Elle Woods?
 A: Legally Blonde
60. What is five eighths as a decimal?
 A: 0.625
61. To what island was the dodo endemic before its extinction?
 A: Mauritius
62. What is the common English name for rice porridges eaten throughout Asia?
 A: congee ([“CON-jee”], but be lenient on pronunciation)
63. What “revolution” involved the independent adoption of agriculture across the world?
 A: Neolithic Revolution
64. What adjective describes a function f for which “f of x equals f of negative x” for all values of
x?
 A: even function
65. What word refers to the set of all possible inputs for a function?
 A: domain
66. What operation on functions is denoted by a circle between the two functions?
 A: composition of functions (accept word forms)
67. What M-word refers to any art piece painted directly on a wall?
 A: mural
68. Who has painted several murals in London of a red heart-shaped balloon floating away from
a girl?
 A: Banksy
69. The History of Mexico, a large mural in the stairwell of the National Palace in Mexico City,
was painted by what artist in the 1930s?
 A: Diego Rivera
70. What technique of mural painting involves applying pigment mixed with water to wet, fresh
plaster?
 A: a fresco
71. What is the easternmost point of land in Canada?
 A: Cape Spear, Newfoundland and Labrador
72. What research station, whose name means “east” in Russian, is the location of the world’s
coldest recorded temperature?
 A: Vostok Station, Antarctica
73. What newest country in Asia occupies the eastern half of its namesake island?
 A: Timor-Leste (accept: East Timor, reject partial answers)
75. Kidney, mung, and fava are all types of what food?
 A: beans
76. The 2001 AL MVP and AL Rookie of the Year awards were won by what longtime Seattle
Mariners player?
 A: Ichiro Suzuki (accept either underlined part)
77. Who is the protagonist of the video game Horizon Zero Dawn?
 A: Aloy
78. What was the only country to medal in all 3 curling events at the 2022 Winter Olympics?
 A: Sweden
79. Sharing his first and last name with a German composer, who is the current Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of Canada?
 A: Richard Wagner
80. What is the largest lake entirely in the United States?
 A: Lake Michigan
81. “North America’s Trusted Source in News” is the motto of what Canadian satirical online
newspaper?
 A: The Beaverton
82. What is the currency of Portugal, Spain, Italy, and many other countries?
 A: Euro
83. What household item is often used to represent the amount of energy a person has in a given
day due to chronic illness or disability?
 A: spoons
84. Who ruled the Ottoman empire from 1520 to 1566?
 A: Suleiman I (accept: Suleiman the Magnificent, Suleiman the Lawgiver;
 prompt on: Suleiman)
85. What treaty ceded Nova Scotia to Britain and ended the War of the Spanish Succession?
 A: Treaty of Utrecht (accept: Peace of Utrecht)
86. Often seen at souvenir shops, what alliteratively-named machine is used to flatten and
transform coins into makeshift commemorative tokens?
 A: penny press (accept: penny presser)
T1. Which treaty established a line 370 leagues west of Cape Verde as the demarcation line
between Spanish and Portuguese control outside of Europe?
 A: Treaty of Tordesillas
T2. What American television producer is responsible for The Good Place, Brooklyn Nine-Nine,
and the US adaptation of The Office?
 A: Michael Schur
T3. Typically, what colour is the gemstone amethyst?
 A: purple (accept: violet)
T4. What is the capital of British Columbia?
 A: Victoria