---
layout: '../../layouts/pack.astro'
title: Reach for the top. Pack#2
---

1. Artists like JME and Skepta belong to what UK dance music genre whose name is a synonym
for dirt?
 A: grime
2. What is missing from any writing system that is an abjad, such as Arabic or Hebrew?
 A: vowels
3. What deceased “fellow of infinite jest” has a skull that features in Hamlet?
 A: Yorick
4. What is 29 times 31?
 A: 899

5. Often found as part of a requiem mass, what two-word Latin term means “day of wrath”?
 A: Dies Irae ([“DEE-es EAR-ay”], but be lenient with pronunciation)
6. Which John Schlesinger film about life in Hollywood was based on a Nathaniel West novel of
the same name?
 A: The Day of the Locust
7. The Norse god of thunder gives his name to which day of the week?
 A: Thursday
40 POINT TEAM QUESTION

8. What event’s start date was moved from June 2022 to November 2022 due to the hot climate
of its host country, Qatar?
 A: 2022 FIFA World Cup (accept: 2022 world cup of soccer, 2022 world
 cup of football, other clear equivalents; prompt on: 2022 World Cup)

9. A 4-0 victory over what country officially qualified Canada for the 2022 FIFA World Cup?
 A: Jamaica
10. How many teams will play in the 2022 FIFA World Cup?
 A: 32 teams
11. Italy was eliminated from the European qualification tournament after a loss to which
country?
 A: North Macedonia (reject: Macedonia)

12. Name the three traditional stages in the career of a medieval craftsman.
 A: apprentice AND journeyman AND master craftsman




13. @champagnepapi [“at champagne papi”]
 A: Drake (accept: Aubrey Graham)
14. @badgalriri [“at bad gal riri”]
 A: Robin Rihanna Fenty (accept either underlined part)
15. @kingjames [“at king james”]
 A: LeBron Raymone James Sr. (accept either underlined part)
16. @teddysphotos [“at teddy’s photos”]
 A: Ed Sheeran (accept: Edward Christopher Sheeran)

17. Meaning “coast” in Arabic, what broad strip of semi-arid land is found south of the Sahara?
 A: Sahel
18. The peninsula where Ethiopia, Somalia, Djibouti, and Eritrea are located is most commonly
identified by what name, in reference to its shape?
 A: Horn of Africa
19. Which newest African country, which declared its independence in 2011, has its capital at
Juba?
 A: South Sudan (reject: Sudan)
20. What is the largest of the African Great Lakes?
 A: Lake Victoria

21. What important lake in central Africa, which shares its name with one of the four countries it
borders, has lost 90% of its area since the 1960s?
 A: Lake Chad
22. In which African country is the Cape of Good Hope located?
 A: South Africa
23. What channel separates Madagascar from mainland Africa?
 A: Mozambique channel
24. The cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville are situated opposite each other on what river?
 A: Congo River

25. What river names the pre-Columbian culture whose sites include the mounds of Cahokia,
which are located near modern-day St. Louis?
 A: Mississippi River
26. What base game Dominion card gives players one extra card and two extra actions?



 A: Village
27. Unlike Little Boy’s Uranium, what element was used for fuel in Fat Man?
 A: plutonium
28. How many unique prime factors does the number 72 have?
 A: 2

29. To the nearest grams per mole, what is the molar mass of diatomic oxygen?
 A: 32 grams per mole
30. What Italian salad primarily consists of basil, tomatoes, and mozzarella cheese?
 A: Caprese salad
31. What T.S. Eliot poem includes the line, “In the room the women come and go, talking of
Michelangelo”?
 A: The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock
32. On December 11, 1936, what king abdicated the British throne?
 A: Edward VIII (prompt on: Edward)

33. The documentary film An Inconvenient Truth is narrated by which former US Vice
President?
 A: Al Gore
34. A suburb of what city hosted the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change, and names an international agreement signed in 2016 to reduce emissions?
 A: Paris
35. What scientist was the first to make a connection between carbon dioxide levels and
temperature, but may be better known for naming acids that dissolve to form hydronium ions?
 A: Svante Arrhenius
36. Cores of what solid material can be used to model ancient climates using isotopes of its
oxygen and hydrogen atoms?
 A: ice
38. In which country was the largest ever peaceful human gathering, with an estimated 50
million people attending the 2019 Kumbh Mela pilgrimage?
 A: India
39. 10.2 million people attended the 1989 funeral of what Iranian politician and religious leader?
 A: Ruhollah Musavi Khomeini (accept: Ayatollah Khomeini; reject: Ali Khamenei)
40. What team’s victory parade was attended by over 5 million people after they won the World
Series in 2016?
 A: Chicago Cubs (prompt on: Chicago)
41. In what country did over 6 million people attend the largest Papal gathering in history,
occurring in Rizal Park in 2015?
 A: The Philippines

42. What theory states that space debris such as asteroids and comets brought the earliest life
forms to Earth?
 A: panspermia
43. What fairy tale character names the region around a star where the conditions for life are just
right?
 A: Goldilocks
44. Which planet’s moons that may be suitable for life include Enceladus and Titan?
 A: Saturn
45. Who asked “Is there life on Mars?” in a 1971 song, a year before adopting his alien alter ego
Ziggy Stardust?
 A: David Bowie

46. Enthusiasts of what country’s popular culture are sometimes referred to by the terms
“weeaboo” and “otaku”?
 A: Japan
47. The use of dated 90s aesthetics as a capitalist critique by Macintosh Plus evolved into what
music genre and fashion movement?
 A: vaporwave
48. What subculture, known for dark makeup and clothing, can also refer to an early Germanic
people whose conflict with the Huns split them into Ostro- and Visi- varieties?
 A: goths



49. The Gathering of the Juggalos is a yearly festival dedicated to putting on artists from
Psychopathic Records, a music label founded by what hip hop duo?
 A: Insane Clown Posse

50. What scalar quantity represents the rate at which work is done?
 A: power

51. What unit of power named for an animal is approximately equal to 746 Watts?
 A: horsepower (prompt on: hp)
52. In circuits, power is equal to voltage times what other quantity, symbolized I?
 A: current
53. In angular dynamics, power is equal to angular velocity multiplied by what rotational
analogue of force?
 A: torque (accept: moment of force)

54. What three-letter word refers to a Martian day?
 A: sol
55. What deity was the Greek counterpart of the Roman god Sol?
 A: Helios
56. Which wonder of the ancient world was a towering statue of Helios?
 A: The Colossus of Rhodes
57. At the base of what monument is Emma Lazarus' poem “The New Colossus” inscribed?
 A: The Statue of Liberty (accept: Liberty Enlightening the World)
58. What English utilitarian philosopher wrote the tract “On Liberty”?
 A: John Stuart Mill
59. What Victorian novelist wrote about the Tulliver siblings in The Mill on the Floss?
 A: George Eliot (accept: Mary Anne Evans)

60. To the nearest degree, what is 1 radian approximately equal to?
 A: 57 degrees
61. Who founded the aerospace company Blue Origin?
 A: Jeff Bezos
62. What name is shared by the Brazilian soccer player named best player of the 1998 FIFA
World Cup and the current captain of the Portuguese national soccer team?
 A: Ronaldo
63. What is the name of the gel that fills most of the human eyeball?



 A: vitreous humour (accept: vitreous body)

64. What Paradox game, with expansions like “After Dark” and “Mass Transit”, is a singleplayer city planning game?
 A: Cities: Skylines (reject partial answers)
65. Which British monarch names the Paradox game that simulates 19th century European
history?
 A: Queen Victoria
66. What 2019 4X Paradox game focuses on space exploration and warfare?
 A: Stellaris

67. What type of food item is the mascot of the Planters snack food company?
 A: peanut (prompt on: nut)

68. Before being elected to office, which US president worked on his family’s peanut farm?
 A: Jimmy Carter
69. What cartoonist created the iconic comic strip Peanuts?
 A: Charles M. Schulz
70. Two of what type of animal are depicted on the label of most jars of Kraft peanut butter?
 A: bears

71. What percussion instrument’s name comes from the Greek for “wood sound”?
 A: xylophone
72. Richard Wagner names an early variety of what lowest-pitched brass instrument?
 A: tuba
73. Mischa Maisky, Mstislav Rostropovich, and Yo-Yo Ma are noted players of what
instrument?
 A: cello
75. Who sheltered six American embassy workers in his role as the Canadian ambassador to Iran
during the 1979 hostage crisis?
 A: Ken Taylor
76. What Irish author wrote The Vicar of Wakefield and the play She Stoops to Conquer?
 A: Oliver Goldsmith
77. In 2014, British-Lebanese barrister Amal Alamuddin married what actor?
 A: George Clooney
78. What five-letter word from Arabic is the antonym of zenith?
 A: nadir
79. What does the word “Good” represent in the mnemonic “Dear King Phillip Came Over For
Good Soup”, used in biological classification?
 A: genus
80. Whereas every other province uses common law, Quebec uses what French-originated
system?
 A: Civil Law (accept: Civil Code)
81. Named after his birthplace, what kind of “handshake” did Jean Chrétien perform on a
protester in 1996?
 A: Shawinigan handshake
82. The matrix of what cellular organelle is the site of the Krebs cycle?
 A: mitochondria (accept: mitochondrion)
83. In 1947, which American piloted the Glamorous Glennis to break the sound barrier for the
first time?
 A: Chuck Yeager
84. Tsar Alexander II is likely best-remembered for emancipating what type of labourers?
 A: serfs (prompt on: peasants, farmers)
85. What British actor has portrayed Blackadder, Johnny English and Mr. Bean?
 A: Rowan Atkinson
86. What 15th seed made it all the way to the Elite Eight of the 2022 March Madness
tournament?
 A: Saint Peter's
T1. How many of the Canadian provincial and territorial capitals are located on islands?
 A: 4
T2. What eight-letter word containing all the letters A, B, C, D, E and F refers to a screeching
sound from a microphone setup?
 A: feedback
T3. Ludwig Bemelmans created what series of children’s books about twelve girls at a Parisian
boarding school?
 A: Madeline
T4. What American painter lends his name to an album that includes “The Greatest” and
“Mariners Apartment Complex” and was recorded by Lana Del Rey?
 A: Norman Rockwell
