---
layout: '../../layouts/pack.astro'
title: Reach for the top. Pack#3
---

40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND 1
1. The Phillips Curve shows the relationship between unemployment and what quantity, the
general increase in prices?
 A: inflation rate (accept: rate of inflation)
2. What composer wrote the operas Billy Budd and Peter Grimes as well as The Young Person’s
Guide to the Orchestra?
 A: Benjamin Britten
3. Detonated over Novaya Zemlya in 1961, what is the largest nuclear weapon ever made?
 A: Tsar Bomba (accept: AN602)
4. Palenque [“pa-LEN-kay”], Tikal, and Chichen Itza were sites of what Mesoamerican
civilization?
 A: Mayans
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- FATHERS OF CONFEDERATION
5. What Father of Confederation, anti-slavery advocate, and Clear Grit leader founded the liberal
newspaper that would later become The Globe and Mail?
 A: George Brown
6. Patrick J. Whelan is best known for the 1868 assassination of what Irish-Canadian Father of
Confederation?
 A: Thomas D'Arcy McGee
7. Though he was born half a century after the British North America Act was signed, what first
premier of Newfoundland was known as the “last father of Confederation”?
 A: Joey Smallwood (accept: Joseph Smallwood)
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
8. What word refers to the act of killing one’s brother?
 A: fratricide
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with LEGENDARY FRATRICIDES.
9. After his offering to God was rejected in favour of his brother’s, which biblical figure killed
his brother Abel?
 A: Cain
10. Which Norse god was accidentally killed by his brother Hodur using a mistletoe-tipped
arrow?
 A: Baldur
11. What fratricidal figure of Roman myth would go on to found the city of Rome?
 A: Romulus
20-POINT SPECIAL
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 2
12. What three actors have portrayed Spiderman in live-action movies since the year 2002?
 A: Tobey Maguire AND Andrew Garfield AND Tom Holland
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- GEOGRAPHICAL FOOD NAMES
13. What city names a sushi roll with salmon and cream cheese as a nod to a cream cheese
brand?
 A: Philadelphia
14. Similar in style to products named for New York, which Canadian city names kosher
varieties of smoked meat and bagels?
 A: Montreal
15. The tomato-based “Manhattan” variety and the cream-based “New England” variety are
types of what soup?
 A: clam chowder (prompt on partial answers)
16. The name of what country is found in the name used in the United States for certain types of
back bacon?
 A: Canada
17. What alliterative phrase refers to the maximum number of individuals of a species that an
ecosystem can handle?
 A: carrying capacity
18. What “D” word is used to describe dead organic matter that decomposers feed on?
 A: detritus
19. Mutualism, commensalism, and parasitism are all examples of what sort of biological
interaction in which species engage in long-term relationships?
 A: symbiosis
20. What name is given to species, such as the sea otter, whose absence would dramatically
affect the viability of the entire community?
A: keystone species
TEAM B:
21. Primary producers are also known by what ‘A’ word?
 A: autotroph (accept word forms)
22. What name is given to species, such as the zebra mussel, that are introduced by humans from
their native ecosystem to another ecosystem with detrimental effects?
 A: invasive species
23. What term is given to the nonliving parts of an ecosystem?
 A: abiotic factors accept (abiotic components)
24. What term is given to an organism’s position in a food chain?
 A: trophic level
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 3
40-POINT SNAPOUT TO END ROUND 1
25. Name either of the two members of the hip hop group Kids See Ghosts.
 A: Kanye West (accept either underlined part) OR Kid Cudi
26. The death of what maiden is mourned by the protagonist in the poem The Raven?
 A: Lenore
27. Hodgkin’s and non-Hodgkin’s are the two main classifications of what type of cancer?
 A: lymphoma
28. Which NBA team finished last in the 2021-2022 season?
 A: Houston Rockets (accept either underlined part)
40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND 2
29. What English singer recorded the 2017 song “New Rules”?
 A: Dua Lipa
30. Name either United States senator from Texas.
 A: Ted Cruz OR John Cornyn
31. What element is found below calcium on the periodic table?
 A: strontium
32. What word refers to the extremum of a parabola, or any corner of a polygon?
 A: vertex
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- AWARDS
33. Which is the only Nobel Prize not presented in Stockholm?
 A: Nobel Peace Prize
34. What athlete, who died in a plane crash on his way to help with earthquake relief efforts in
Nicaragua, is the namesake of the MLB’s sportsmanship and community involvement award?
 A: Roberto Clemente
35. The Philip F. Anschutz Trophy is given to the playoff champions in which league, which was
won in 2017 by Toronto FC?
 A: MLS (accept: Major League Soccer)
36. Along with the Millennium Prize, Grigori Perelman declined what highest honour in
mathematics in 2006?
 A: Fields Medal
40-POINT WHO AM I? QUESTION
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- PSEUDOSCIENCE
38. What name was given to the force that was once thought to push matter upwards in
opposition to gravity?
 A: levity
39. What two-word term describes the disproven theory that complex organic forms regularly
emerge from inorganic matter?
 A: spontaneous generation
40. Introduced by Franz Joseph Gall, what pseudoscientific field held that personality traits could
be predicted by the shape of one's skull?
 A: phrenology
41. From the 1920s to the 1960s, what country’s agricultural policy was guided by Trofim
Lysenko's denial of Mendelian genetics and bogus theories on wheat?
 A: Soviet Union (accept: USSR; reject: Russia)
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- RENAISSANCE ART
42. What building contains the works The Last Judgment and The Creation of Adam?
 A: the Sistine Chapel (prompt on: Apostolic Palace, Vatican Palace)
43. Who depicted what he believed to be the ideal proportions of the male body in his Vitruvian
Man?
 A: Leonardo da Vinci (accept either underlined part)
44. What painting depicts figures including Chloris and Zephyrus, the three Graces, and Venus,
and was painted by Sandro Botticelli?
 A: Primavera
45. Gentileschi [“gen-til-ESS-kee”] and Caravaggio are both known for painting which figure
beheading Holofernes?
 A: Judith beheading Holofernes
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- RIVER TERMS
46. What "T"-word refers to a river that flows into a larger river?
 A: tributary
47. What sediment-based landforms found at the mouths of rivers are named after their
resemblance to a Greek letter?
 A: deltas
48. Known as a “billabong” in Australia, what type of lake is created when part of a meandering
river is cut off from the river body?
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 5
 A: oxbow lake
49. What French term refers specifically to a river that flows to the sea, as seen in the French
name of the St. Lawrence River?
 A: fleuve
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
50. Since 2020, Tyra Banks has hosted what reality competition TV show?
 A: Dancing with the Stars
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with DANCE.
51. The badlah is the costume traditionally worn in what genre of dance that originated in Egypt
and the Middle East?
 A: belly dance
52. Power moves, freezes, toprock, and downrock are the four main types of movement in what
genre of dance created in the US in the 1970s?
 A: breakdance (accept: breaking, b-boying, b-girling)
53. Combining elements of the waltz, mazurka, milonga, and habanera, what dance originated in
the 1880s in Argentina?
 A: tango
60-POINT CHAIN SNAPPERS
54. What U.S. State is divided into the Upper and Lower peninsulas?
 A: Michigan
55. What singer-songwriter’s albums have included Illinois and Michigan?
 A: Sufjan Stevens
56. The early-2000s lineup of which NHL team included defensemen Scott Niedermayer and
Scott Stevens?
 A: New Jersey Devils (accept either underlined part)
57. Which Disney movie’s primary antagonist is Cruella de Vil?
 A: 101 Dalmatians
58. Which European country is home to the region called Dalmatia?
 A: Croatia
59. In what year did France win 4-2 in the final of the FIFA World Cup against Croatia?
 A: 2018
40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND 3
60. The point (0, 0) [“zero comma zero”] on the Cartesian plane is also known by what “O”
word?
 A: origin
61. In what short story does Fortunato get buried alive in Montresor’s family catacombs?
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 6
 A: The Cask of Amontillado ([“ah-MON-tee-A-doe”], but be lenient on
 pronunciation)
62. What is the second-largest city in Prince Edward Island?
 A: Summerside
63. Who is known in German as Aschenputtel [“ASH-en-poo-tel”], which translates to “little ash
girl”, in a story by the Brothers Grimm?
 A: Cinderella
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- SPAIN IN LITERATURE
64. The first play in Gabriel García Lorca’s Rural Trilogy focuses on a “blood” type of what
event?
 A: blood wedding
65. What character rides the donkey Dapple as the squire in Don Quixote?
 A: Sancho Panza (accept either underlined part)
66. What author set books such as Death in the Afternoon and The Sun Also Rises in Spain?
 A: Ernest Hemingway
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
67. Falco and what other character can press down-B to shine an opponent in Super Smash Bros.
Melee?
 A: Star Fox (accept: Fox McCloud)
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with FOXES.
68. Fox was revealed to be Wayne Brady after winning season 2 of what reality TV show, in
which disguised celebrities show off their musical talents?
 A: The Masked Singer
69. Inspector Carmelita Fox is one of the primary antagonists, and the love interest, of what
thieving raccoon video game character?
 A: Sly Cooper (accept either underlined part)
70. Whose military exploits in Egypt and Libya gave him his nickname, “The Desert Fox”?
 A: Field Marshal Erwin Rommel
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- ENGLISH MONARCHS
71. Henry V, Edward IV.
 A: Henry VI (prompt on: Henry)
72. Edward III, Henry IV.
 A: Richard II (prompt on: Richard)
73. Mary I, James I.
 A: Elizabeth I (prompt on: Elizabeth)
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 7
40-POINT WHAT COUNTRY AM I? QUESTION
120-POINT SNAPOUT
75. What symbol is used to dereference a pointer in C or C++ [“C plus plus”]?
 A: asterisk (accept: star)
76. Animation voice actor SungWon Cho runs which YouTube channel?
 A: ProZD
77. What element has the chemical symbol “N”?
 A: nitrogen
78. Which author wrote The View from Castle Rock, a collection of short stories set in Ontario?
 A: Alice Munro
79. Who faced a criminal investigation after firing a prop gun while shooting the film Rust?
 A: Alec Baldwin (prompt on: Baldwin)
80. Which royal house acceded to the throne following the death of Queen Anne of the House of
Stuart?
 A: House of Hanover
81. What former city on Lake Texcoco is now the historic centre of Mexico City?
 A: Tenochtitlan
82. What author created the character Lyra [“LIE-ruh”], who can read an alethiometer [“uh-LEEthee-AW-muh-ter”]?
 A: Philip Pullman
83. What is the official language of Uruguay?
 A: Spanish
84. What four-letter word can refer to a collection of cards or an outdoor wooden extension to a
home?
 A: deck
85. What city, with an elevation of between 5130 and 5670 feet above sea level, is known as the
“Mile High” city?
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #3
Page 8
 A: Denver
86. A 10-minute version of which Taylor Swift song appears on Red (Taylor’s Version)?
 A: “All Too Well”
TIEBREAKERS
T1. What military dictator of Panama was deposed in 1990 after a U.S. military invasion?
 A: Manuel Noriega
T2. The Dell computer company is headquartered in which U.S. state?
 A: Texas
T3. Who famously said that genius is “one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration”?
 A: Thomas Edison
T4. Who was the only one of Canada’s first eight prime ministers to not be knighted?
 A: Alexander Mackenzie (reject: William Lyon Mackenzie King)