---
layout: '../../layouts/pack.astro'
title: Reach for the top. Pack#4
addedBy: Sokmontrey
---

1. At what two values of x does the curve y = x2
 intersect the line y = x?
 A: x equals 0 AND x equals 1
2. What object names a political theory equating the far-left with the far-right as well as the
largest section of Niagara Falls?
 A: horseshoe
3. What is the most sacred river in Hinduism?
 A: Ganges River
4. Located on the North Island, what is the largest city in New Zealand?
 A: Auckland
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- KILLERS
5. Who shot and killed John Lennon on the doorstep of Lennon's apartment building in 1980?
 A: Mark David Chapman
6. In January 1948, what radical supporter of Hindu nationalism assassinated Mahatma Gandhi?
 A: Nathuram Godse
7. Who is the lead singer of The Killers?
 A: Brandon Flowers
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
8. What word is used to describe metallic elements with incomplete d-blocks, which make up the
bulk of the middle of the periodic table starting with Scandium?
 A: transition metals
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with TRANSITIONS IN SCIENCE.
9. Transitions and transversions are “point” types of what genetic phenomena that change the
sequences of DNA, sometimes with a negative effect?
 A: mutations
10. What phase transition occurs when a substance changes from a solid to a gas?
 A: sublimation
11. A transition temperature named for what substance, similar to a melting point, occurs when a
material changes from an amorphous to a liquid state?
 A: glass
20-POINT SPECIAL
12. Name any two of the Four Corners states in the United States.
 A: (any two of:) Utah, Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #4
Page 2
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- CHRISTMAS MUSIC
13. What artist is responsible for the only Christmas album to win the Juno for Album Of The
Year?
 A: Michael Bublé
14. Whose album Merry Christmas included the songs “Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)”
and “All I Want for Christmas is You”?
 A: Mariah Carey
15. Who looked out on the Feast of Stephen, according to the opening line of a Christmas carol
titled for him?
 A: Good King Wenceslas
16. What a capella group has released Christmas albums including Christmas is Here! and
PTXmas?
 A: Pentatonix
80-POINT ASSIGNED QUESTION -- MON- WORDS
17. This food additive has been falsely linked to causation of headaches and is meant to duplicate
the taste of kombu.
 A: monosodium glutamate (reject: MSG; reject partial answers)
18. This is a place of home and worship for monks.
 A: monastery
19. This is the practice of being married to one person at a time.
 A: monogamy (accept word forms)
20. First and last name required. This man was the first host of Let’s Make a Deal, and he also
lends his name to a mathematical paradox.
 A: Monty Hall (reject partial answers)
21. This meteorological term refers to a seasonal reversing wind accompanied by a change in
precipitation.
 A: monsoon
22. This French word is an honorific for prelates or members of a royal family.
 A: monseigneur (reject: monsieur)
23. This word means to convert into, or express in terms of currency.
 A: monetize (accept word forms)
24. Synonymous with “mutt”, this word means a mixed-breed dog.
 A: mongrel
40-POINT SNAPOUT TO END ROUND 1
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #4
Page 3
25. How many letters are there in the Greek alphabet?
 A: 24
26. The key signature for B major has how many sharps?
 A: five sharps
27. Name any of the three Crystal Gems who live with the titular character on Steven Universe.
 A: Garnet OR Amethyst OR Pearl
28. What word can mean either the trail of disturbed water left by a boat, or a vigil held to
honour a death?
 A: wake
40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND 2
29. In what game do players make as many words as possible out of adjacent letters in a
randomized 4-by-4 grid of letter dice?
 A: Boggle
30. What Canadian “Operation” was launched to support the diverted passengers after the 9/11
attacks?
 A: Operation Yellow Ribbon
31. What is the most venomous lizard in North America?
 A: Gila monster ([“HEE-la monster”], but be lenient on pronunciation)
 (prompt on: Gila)
32. The Last Tycoon is an unfinished novel by what American author?
 A: F. Scott Fitzgerald
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- GOODS
33. Tobacco and what other good are the chief agricultural exports of Cuba?
 A: raw sugar (accept: sugarcane)
34. What luxury good gave its name to the network of trade routes that connected the Eastern
and Western worlds starting in the second century BC?
 A: silk
35. Botswana, South Africa, and Sierra Leone are among the top 10 producers of what luxury
good?
 A: diamonds
36. Luxury goods for which the demand increases as the price increases are named after what
American economist?
 A: Thorstein Veblen
40-POINT WHO AM I? QUESTION
37. I won the Bobby Smith Trophy and Red Tilson Trophy after a successful 2015 season.
WHO AM I?
captain the Edmonton Oilers. WHO AM I?
A: Connor McDavid
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- ADAPTATIONS
38. What author’s novels were parodied by Ben Winters to feature sea monsters and Seth
Grahame-Smith to feature zombies?
 A: Jane Austen
39. What novel by Philip K. Dick was adapted into the movie Blade Runner?
 A: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
40. A 2018 Sherlock Holmes film and a 2011 adaptation of Romeo and Juliet feature
anthropomorphic versions of what lawn ornaments?
 A: garden gnomes
41. Akira Kurosawa’s film Throne of Blood is based on what Shakespeare play?
 A: Macbeth
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- FLORAL SYMBOLS
42. The flag of Quebec prominently features what floral symbol?
 A: fleur-de-lis (accept: lily flower)
43. The house of York was represented by what floral symbol during the Wars of the Roses?
 A: white rose (prompt on: rose)
44. The throne of the Emperor of Japan is named for what flower, a common symbol of Japan?
 A: chrysanthemum (accept: chrysanthemum throne)
45. What mountain flower is a national symbol of Austria and names a song from The Sound of
Music?
 A: edelweiss
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION – THE 2021 CANADIAN FEDERAL ELECTION
46. How many total seats would any party have needed to win a majority?
 A: 170 seats
47. Which party won all 14 seats in Saskatchewan and 30 of the 34 seats in Alberta?
 A: Conservative Party of Canada (accept: Conservatives, CPC, Tories) 
 48. Defeated by Liberal incumbent Marci Ien, who placed a distant fourth in Toronto Centre
despite being a federal party leader?
 A: Annamie Paul
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #4
Page 5
49. Which party won the second-most votes in the riding of Beauce, where its leader Maxime
Bernier was the candidate?
 A: People’s Party of Canada (accept: PPC)
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
50. Which company owns the Bing search engine and the web browser Edge?
 A: Microsoft
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with MICROSOFT.
51. What is Microsoft’s flagship line of video game consoles?
 A: Xbox
52. What is the name of Microsoft’s integrated development environment for programming?
 A: Microsoft Visual Studio (accept: Microsoft Visual Studio Code)
53. The estate of what deceased co-founder of Microsoft owns the Seattle Seahawks and the
Portland Trail Blazers?
 A: Paul Allen
60-POINT CHAIN SNAPPERS
54. What is the female equivalent of a warlock?
 A: witch
55. According to her line of dialogue, what happens when a bucket of water is thrown on the
Wicked Witch of the West in the movie The Wizard of Oz?
 A: she melts (accept word forms; prompt on: she dies)
56. When too much current flows through it, what circuit component contains a metal wire or
strip that is designed to melt?
 A: fuse
57. Energy and what element are produced by the sun’s fusion reaction?
 A: helium
58. What aristocratic adjective is used to describe inert gases such as helium?
 A: noble
59. What country was the birthplace of chemist Alfred Nobel?
 A: Sweden
40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND 3
60. In what game are players tasked in turn to place a hand or foot on a circle of a particular
colour?
 A: Twister
61. Luke Triton is the assistant of what puzzle-solving Professor who titles a series of Nintendo
DS games?
 A: Professor Hershel Layton
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #4
Page 6
62. The surface of a 5 by 5 Rubik’s Cube contains how many individual squares?
 A: 150
63. What Keats poem begins, “Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness”?
 A: Ode on a Grecian Urn (reject: Ode to a Grecian Urn)
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- THEATRE TERMS
64. An actor who learns a lead role in order to act as a replacement on short notice.
 A: understudy
65. Backstage areas that allow for set and prop storage and performers preparing to enter.
 A: wings
66. A system of ropes, pulleys, and counterweights used by technicians to move setpieces and
lights on and off stage quickly.
 A: fly system (accept: fly tower; flyspace; word forms)
40-POINT TEAM QUESTION
Part 1: Scramble for 10 points.
67. The presence of peptidoglycan in the cell wall characterizes what prokaryotic domain whose
species include E. coli?
 A: bacteria
Part 2: The remaining questions deal with BACTERIA.
68. The amount of peptidoglycan in the cell wall is the mechanism for what staining technique to
visualize bacteria?
 A: Gram stain
69. Infection with what genus of bacteria can cause typhoid fever in severe cases, or food
poisoning in more mild cases?
 A: Salmonella
70. Alexander Fleming discovered what drug, the first antibiotic?
 A: penicillin
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION -- ENGLISH PILGRIMS
71. From what English city did the Pilgrim Fathers set sail on the Mayflower?
 A: Plymouth
72. What English Puritan wrote the allegory commonly known as The Pilgrim's Progress?
 A: John Bunyan
73. The Pilgrimage of Grace was a large-scale rebellion against which English monarch?
 A: Henry VIII (prompt on: Henry)
40-POINT WHAT CITY AM I? QUESTION
2022-2023 Reach For The Top
Senior Pack #4
Page 7
74.My Europa Hotel has been called one of the most notorious hotels in the world. Most
of the structures known as “peace lines” are found in me. WHAT CITY AM I?
 A: Belfast
120-POINT SNAPOUT
75. What logical operator returns true if and only if both inputs are true?
 A: and
76. Flour tortillas and a heavy use of cheese characterize what fusion cuisine from the
Southwestern United States?
 A: Tex-Mex (reject partial answers)
77. During the late Qing dynasty, the power behind the throne was held by which Dowager
Empress?
 A: Dowager Empress Cixi ([“tsee-shee”], but be lenient with pronunciation)
78. Who was the Roman god of war?
 A: Mars
79. What billionaire finished his final term as mayor of New York City in 2013?
 A: Michael Bloomberg
80. Spell the name of the Greek phyllo pastry dish filled with spinach and feta, spanakopita.
 A: S-P-A-N-A-K-O-P-I-T-A
81. According to the idiom, snips and snails and what exact ingredient are boys made out of?
 A: puppy dogs’ tails (accept: puppy dog tails; prompt on partial answers)
82. Whose playoff escapades included getting punched in the jaw by Rougned Odor in 2016 and
a bat flip in 2015?
 A: José Bautista
83. What Maritime city includes African-Canadian communities like North Preston and the
former Africville?
 A: Halifax
84. Who won the 2022 Masters golf tournament?
 A: Scottie Scheffler
85. What country was partitioned three times between Austria, Prussia, and Russia?
 A: Kingdom of Poland
86. What ethnic group signed the controversial Treaty of Waitangi with the British?

Page 8
 A: Māori
TIEBREAKERS
T1. What animal was the answer to the Sphinx’s riddle which was solved by Oedipus?
 A: human (accept: man, person, other equivalents)
T2. Heinrich Schliemann proved through excavation in the 1870s that what ancient city existed?
 A: Troy
T3. How many degrees is pi radians?
 A: 180 degrees
T4. The squeezebox is another name for what family of instruments?
 A: accordions 