---
layout: '../../layouts/pack.astro'
title: Reach for the top. Pack#10
addedBy: Sokmontrey
---

1. King William III of England was born in which country?
A. THE NETHERLANDS
2. George Orton, Canada's first Olympic Gold Medallist, won his gold medal in which Athletics
event?
 A. THE STEEPLECHASE
3. Which NFL team is named after an Edgar Allan Poe story?
 A. THE BALTIMORE RAVENS
4. What ship collided with the MONT BLANC in Halifax harbour on 6 December 1917, setting
off the Halifax Explosion?
A. THE IMO
5. He was the Emperor of Rome from 81 to 96 CE. Spell: Domitian.
A. DOMITIAN
6. He was a Greek philosopher, poet and critic who lived from 570 to 475 BCE. Spell:
Xenophanes.
A. XENOPHANES
7. He was an Italian Dominican friar, whose activities in Florence during the Renaissance were a
thorn in the side of the ruling Medici family. Spell the surname of Girolamo Savonarola.
A. SAVONAROLA
8. What TV show had an episode called “Jurassic Bark”, in which a dog waits for his master?
The master never shows up because he was transported 1000 years into the future and joins an
interstellar delivery company in this Matt Groening animated series.
 A. FUTURAMA
9. Who delivers a pizza in the year 2000 only to end up cryogenically frozen, and is the
protagonist in “Futurama”?
 A. PHILIP J. FRY

10. What distant relative of Fry's is a scientist who owns the Planet Express delivery company
and often exclaims, “good news, everyone!”
 A. PROFESSOR FARNSWORTH (accept either word)
11. Who shares a rare blood type with the Professor and is an intern at Planet Express? She
comes from a wealthy Chinese family?
 A. AMY WONG (Accept either name)
20-POINT SPECIAL
12. Name any two of the four countries other than Russia that have a shoreline on the Black Sea.
 A. UKRAINE, BULGARIA, ROMANIA, TURKEY (Two of)
40 POINT OPEN-– AUTHORS
Identify the authors of these books.
13. The Fire Dwellers, The Diviners, The Stone Angel.
 A. MARGARET LAURENCE
14. 20,000 leagues under the sea, From the Earth to the Moon, Around the World in Eighty
Days.
 A. JULES VERNE
15. How I Spent My Summer Holidays, The Vanishing Point , Who Has Seen the Wind?
 A. W.O. MITCHELL
16. Surfacing, Cat’s Eye, The Handmaid’s Tale.
 A. MARGARET ATWOOD
17. What “universal solvent” is commonly used to dissolve chemicals to be used in reactions?
A. WATER
18. What type of chemical reaction can be described as “incomplete” when it produces carbon
monoxide?
 A. COMBUSTION
19. What term refers to the highest level of a chemical reaction energy diagram that is seen as
the tipping point of whether a reaction will occur?
 A. TRANSITION STATE
20. The Michaelis-Menten equation deals with the reaction rates of what kind of substance?
 A. ENZYME (prompt on “catalyst”)
21. The reactions of compounds containing what element that can make four bonds is the basis
for organic chemistry?
 A. CARBON

22. The reaction between what two substances traditionally produces a salt and water?
 A. ACID AND BASE
23. What name is given to the individual steps of redox reactions which note the transfer of
individual electrons?
 A. (REDOX) HALF-REACTION
24. What term refers to the sum of the powers to which concentrations are raised in the rate
equation?
 A. (REACTION) ORDER
25. What kind of botanical garden is used for the display and study of trees?
 A. ARBORETUM
26. Mixing milk into a white roux makes what creamy white French sauce?
 A. BECHAMEL (SAUCE)
27. What actor starred as the pilot in the 2016 movie Sully?
 A. TOM HANKS
28. What English children’s author created Paddington Bear?
 A. MICHAEL BOND
29. The United States Naval Academy is located in which US state capital?
A. ANNAPOLIS (IN MARYLAND)
30. Who was the first Canadian Prime Minister to be born after Confederation?
A. ARTHUR MEIGHEN
31. Which fictional character holds the record as the most portrayed literary character in film,
having appeared in over 270 movies?
A. DRACULA
32. Martin Cooper invented the handheld cellular phone in 1973 while working for which
company?
A. MOTOROLA
40-POINT OPEN QUESTION – COUNTRIES WITH MULTIPLE CAPITAL CITIES
33. Though officially the capital of the Netherlands is Amsterdam, the seat of the government
and the monarchy are located in which Dutch city?
 A. THE HAGUE
34. Along with Pretoria, the administrative capital, and Cape Town, the legislative capital, what
is the third capital city of South Africa, the seat of the judiciary?
 A. BLOEMFONTEIN
35. La Paz is the administrative capital and Sucre is the legislative and judicial capital of which
South American country?
 A. BOLIVIA

36. Though forced to relocate their government to Taiwan in 1949 due to the advance of
communist forces, the Republic of China still considers this city their capital, with Taipei being
the de-facto seat of government?
 A. NANJING
37. I was born in London in 1908, I was the son of a Member of Parliament who died during World War I. I graduated from Eton and Sandhurst and prior to World War II worked as a journalist and financier.  WHO AM I?  
A. I AM IAN FLEMING
38. Who created the periodic table of elements in 1869?
 A. DIMITRI MENDELEEV
39. Which English chemist is credited with the discovery of oxygen?
 A. JOSEPH PRIESTLEY
40. Which Italian inventor developed a system of wireless telegraphy?
 A. GUGLIELMO MARCONI
41. Who showed that there are different orders of infinity and developed the theory of trans-finite
numbers as a means of distinguishing them?
 A. GEORG CANTOR
42. It begins with the letter ‘a’ and contains primarily orange slices and flaked coconut. Spell:
ambrosia.
A. AMBROSIA
43. It is a dish of ice cream with a topping such as syrup, fruit, nuts, or whipped cream.
 A. SUNDAE

44. It is the American version of a frozen dessert like sorbet, but contains a small amount of
dairy.
 A. SHERBET
45. It is a crisp Italian cookie traditionally flavoured with anise and often containing almonds or
filberts.
 A. BISCOTTI/BISCOTTO
46. Who composed the opera Don Giovanni?
 A. WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART
47. Who wrote the comedic play, Don Juan où le Festin de Pierre?
 A. MOLIÈRE
48. Don Juan, an unfinished epic satire of 16,000 lines, was written by what poet?
 A. LORD BYRON
49. In which G.B. Shaw play is there a scene entitled Don Juan in Hell?
 A. MAN AND SUPERMAN
50. Vexillology is the study of what objects?
 A. FLAGS
51. The patron saint of which British country is not represented on the Union Jack?
 A. WALES
52. What is the technical term for the upper left quadrant of a flag, which has a different colour
or style than the rest of the flag?
 A. THE CANTON
53. Prior to 1965, what was the name of the flag used by Canada?
 A. THE RED ENSIGN
54. Ernie Els is a professional golfer with the origin country of
 A. SOUTH AFRICA
55. Robert Allenby is a professional golfer with the origin country of
 A. AUSTRALIA 

56. Eric Clapton was inspired to write the song Layla after he fell in love with which famous
musician’s wife?
A. GEORGE HARRISON
57. The Midpoint Rule, the Trapezoidal Rule and Simpson’s Rule are all numerical methods for
approximating which mathematical object?
A. (DEFINITE) INTEGRALS
58. Who invented the gyroscope?
 A. JEAN BERNARD FOUCAULT
59. Taking its name from a colony in Guyana, what type of unrefined sugar is characterized by a
coarse texture and large golden brown crystals?
 A. DEMERARA
40-POINT SNAPSTART TO ROUND THREE
60. What are the two words which gave rise to the expression G.I., which was much used during
World War II?
 A. GOVERNMENT ISSUE or GENERAL ISSUE or GALVANIZED IRON
61. What island country attained its independence from France in 1804 following a rebellion led
by former slave Toussaint L’Ouverture?
 A. HAITI
62. Which city was the site of the only Summer Olympic Games held outside a leap year?
 A. PARIS
63. What body part is referred to in the name of the pasta known as ‘Orrechiete’?
 A. EAR
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION – SPANISH WORDS
64. What is the Spanish word for ‘cat’?
 A. GATO/GATA/FELINO
65. What is the Spanish word for ‘dog’?
 A. PERRO/CAN
66. What is the Spanish word for ‘bird’?
 A. PAJARO/AVE

67. Which of the seven liberal arts is the study of persuasive speech when used to construct an
address or argument?
 A. RHETORIC
68. Which Roman orator referred to rhetoric as “the queen of the arts”?
 A. CICERO
69. What ironic rhetorical device is formally called ‘litotes’?
 A. UNDERSTATEMENT
70. What three-letter word is used more commonly to describe the form of rhetorical wordplay
called a paronomasia?
 A. PUN
30-POINT OPEN QUESTION – RETAIL MATH
71. If a winter coat costing 350 dollars is 40% off, how much does it cost (ignoring tax)?
 A. ($) 210
72. If a summer jacket costing 220 dollars has its price increased by 25%, how much does it cost
(ignoring tax)?
 A. ($) 275
73. If I buy two pounds of bananas at $2.50 per pound and three and a half pounds of apples at
$3 per pound, what is my total?
 A. ($) 15.50
74. Many people have experimented with me from Hermann von Helmholtz to Nikola Tesla. WHAT AM I?
 A. I AM X-RAYS
75. A four-times-life-size replica of which famous mausoleum in Agra is planned for
construction in Dubai?
 A. TAJ MAHAL
76. Which 12th century historical figure devised the principle of a doctor’s political neutrality
that is today a part of the Red Cross’s charter?
 A. SALADIN
77. What is the sixth planet from the sun?
 A. SATURN
78. What is the unit of measurement for the intensity of sound?
 A. DECIBEL (Accept BEL)
79. What is the national motto of the Bahamas?
 A. FORWARD, UPWARD, ONWARD TOGETHER
80. Which subatomic particle made headlines in 2012 when it was wrongly reported to have
traveled faster than the speed of light?
 A. NEUTRINO
81. Who was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director for The Social Network and
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button?
 A. DAVID FINCHER
82. Naheed Nenshi is the 36th mayor of what Canadian city?
 A. CALGARY
83. Which country lies between Costa Rica and Colombia?
 A. PANAMA
84. Mochi, a cake made of glutinous rice, is a traditional dessert serve for New Year’s in what
country?
 A. JAPAN
85. What was the name of the British ship that first answered the SOS of the Titanic and picked
up more than 700 survivors?
 A. CARPATHIA
86. In what country is Narita Airport located?
 A. JAPAN
 END OF GAME
TIE-BREAKERS IF NECESSARY
1. Also known as “EVOO” by the celebrity chef Rachel Ray, what common cooking ingredient
can be used to dress salads, marinate meat, and dip bread in?
 A. EXTRA VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
2. Which theatrical duo wrote many Savoy Operas, including Patience and The Mikado?
 A. GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
3. What was the appropriate name of the merchant ship used by Henry Hudson to explore
Hudson’s Bay in 1610?
 A. DISCOVERY
4. Specifically, what second trade did medieval barbers pursue?
 A. SURGERY (Accept SURGEON) 